(KOTARO)
We need your help as genin
in order to capture
the Byakuya Gang.
They've proven themselves
to be very elusive indeed.
And regrettably, our standard
search procedures
have so far been unsuccessful.
I'm here today to ask you
to keep your eyes open.
Watch out for any unusual
activity in the village.
If you notice something,
report it immediately
to the Police Force
or to a shinobi who is
ranked higher than a chunin.
Sounds like
a serious mission.
We really have to do
our best!
(KOTARO)
However...!
‐ Hm?
As you are still genin,
the scope of your mission
is limited.
You may observe.
And you may report.
And depending on
the situation, you may track.
Does that mean
we can't fight?
We cannot authorize
you genin
to take part in
any combat yet.
Avoid engaging in
reckless behavior!
[chattering]
We can't fight the enemy
even if we do find them...
That's going to
be a tough mission!
(MITSUKI)
Hey...
Even though we don't intend
to fight them,
what do we do if
the enemy attacks us first?
In that case, well then...
Then we'll have no choice
but to fight them!
And there's always
the possibility
that we might even
be able to capture them.
Right, Boruto?
Huh?
Well...
I wonder about that.
What do you mean?
I thought for sure
you'd be agreeing with me
this time.
This isn't like you.
Oh, just shut up!
I've been giving these kind
of questions a lot of thought.
Earth Style, Mud Wall!
Hey, you're something else!
Your talents are going
to waste as a ninja!
How about it?
Wanna come work for us?
[chuckle]
Robbers in the village!
And they're wearing
owl masks!
[gasp]
Contact the Police Force
right away!
‐ There's no time for that!
‐ [gasps]
We're gonna
capture them ourselves!
Wait, Iwabe!
[heavy breathing]
Stop right there!
Ignore them!
Earth Style...Mud Wall!
You are quite amazing, Iwabe!
This must be the natural
result of daily training!
My Mud Wall is
fortified bedrock.
And I've gotten stronger too!
I'll go notify
the Police Force now.
Ahhh!
[groan]
Denki!
[gasp]
[grunt]
‐ [gasp]
‐ (METAL) Ahhh!
(BORUTO)
Are you okay, Metal?
I am very sorry I have
caused you all to worry...
[pained groan]
Aw... Metal...
Don't exert yourself.
You have
a really serious injury
and you shouldn't
be moving around.
[scoff]
This is nothing
but a small wound
and as long as
I have some mobility,
I can continue to train!
[struggling]
I'm sorry.
This is all my fault.
No. I was too careless...
(UDON)
It wasn't carelessness.
Iwabe...
Your arrogance is the main
reason all this happened.
You were told to
report back at once
if you found
the Byakuya Gang.
So why did you ignore
your orders?
Sorry, Udon Sensei...
You are all
inexperienced genin.
Learn to face that reality.
This time, you got off
with an injury.
But that one mistake
could have cost you
your life or someone else's.
[quivering breaths]
Forgive me...
Iwabe...
You're suspended for now,
so go on home.
You should all practice
self‐restraint.
I'm going to make
my report now.
It is okay, Iwabe.
I will be fine.
I will do physical therapy
and get stronger
than I was before.
Look, just let it go, Metal.
Udon Sensei just told us
we have to be more realistic.
Well...uh...
Face it.
The higher‐ups match
our missions to our abilities.
Over‐reaching will only
turn out to be a drag for us.
That's the reality.
[emotional sigh]
(NEWSCASTER)
Coming up next,
a report on
the Byakuya Gang.
With the Hidden
Leaf Village
as their current target,
the Byakuya Gang has been
stealing gold and jewelry
from wealthy residents.
They sell the items
and give the proceeds to
the poor in remote areas.
They call themselves
noble thieves.
We had a water shortage.
But now,
the problem's been resolved.
All thanks to
the Byakuya Gang.
(POOR FEMALE VILLAGER)
We're very grateful.
They're our saviors!
And that feeling
is growing.
Increasing numbers
within the Land of Fire
support them, too.
It's probably
another indication
of just how dissatisfied
people throughout
the nation are feeling.
Why is the Byakuya Gang
becoming so popular?
They are only
common thieves, right?
Probably because poor people
resent rich people.
Right?
Woah!
Now that's not really fair.
Not everyone in the world
is going to be
a financial success.
Hey, Mommy!
Is the Byakuya Gang
good or are they bad?
[gasp]
Why the sudden interest?
The news was on...
and they said that
the gang only steals
so they can give money to
people who really need it.
And that we should
admire them!
Because people like that
are noble thieves.
Actually‐‐
No thief is good or noble,
ya know.
Huh?
Now don't get me wrong‐‐
helping the weak is fine...
if you do it right.
They don't care who they hurt
in the process.
And that's bad.
[chewing]
I get it.
That makes sense.
But Dad's at
the root of all this,
because his policies are
obviously ineffective.
[chewing]
Everybody knows that
the Hokage's job
is to help people
in trouble.
Unfortunately, there isn't
an easy fix for everything.
And some problems
can only be solved
little by little over time.
Daddy's doing the best
he can, right?
That's right!
He sure is, dear!
I get that Dad is
"doing his best"...
But I just can't support
the Byakuya Gang.
I believe the right thing
to do is to always
help people out in the open,
fair and square!
(DENKI)
[sigh]
Worrying never
solves anything.
Just take it easy during
your suspension.
Yeah, but...
You gotta cheer up, Denki.
We'll come over to keep you
company when we have time.
Thanks a lot, Boruto.
You know what I still
can't figure out...
is why the Byakuya Gang
operates like it does.
They say it's for
"the sake of justice."
Isn't that it?
That is exactly the type
of propaganda
people you can't trust
always come up with.
It's the way they do things
that really bothers me.
Ugh, they are so not cool.
But despite that,
you gotta face facts.
There are people who are
genuinely grateful
to them for their help.
What are you trying to say?
You taking their side,
Shikadai?
I don't like the things
those people are doing either.
But you are aware that
there are a lot of things
in the world
that defy logic, right?
If we only cling to one view
and refuse to see
the other side,
we might wind up making
the situation worse.
Instead of sitting
and talking,
we need to capture
the Byakuya Gang.
We can't just let them
run around
doing whatever they want.
Only chunin and higher
can capture them.
Don't forget that
our assignment
is only to report
and track them.
I know all of that!
But c'mon...
As long as we're
on their trail,
I'd rather capture
them myself.
You haven't been listening
to anything we've said.
Get real.
We can't do that.
I know, all right?!
Well, all right.
I really have to get going.
Okay.
Me, too.
I've gotta go and deal
with a real‐life problem
I'm struggling
with right now.
And just what real‐life
problem would that be?
I've blown through
my allowance
and can't buy any more
video games.
So I'm gonna borrow them
from Mr. Katasuke.
[gasp] You're really going to
go see that weird guy again?
Yeah, 'cuz that weird guy's
got a ton of games,
what can I tell ya?
Later!
See ya.
Bye, guys.
Katasuke?
(MITSUKE)
I met him once.
He's an odd adult
who does scientific
research on ninjutsu.
I'll take your word
that he's a weirdo.
You've come back.
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Then we can begin.
Our next target is
this pawn shop.
I've already scouted
the place.
We'll enter from the back,
steal the goods,
and escape through the front.
We know this shop has
a really bad reputation.
If things go well, support for
our cause will only grow.
[gasp]
What is it?
If it's all right,
can I go on ahead?
I want to memorize
the layout of this area.
Hm? That's fine.
Yes, sir!
You sure about this?
Let him go.
The boy is nothing
but a loyal pawn.
He'll never betray me.
[chuckle]
(BORUTO)
What's up!
I'm here to borrow
some games.
(KATASUKE)
Young lord! Welcome!
Please feel free to take
as many of these as you like.
Wow! This one's the newest
limited edition!
Sweet!
That game's really great.
I had to pull an all‐nighter
in order to finish
every level of it.
You're amazing,
Mister Katasuke!
When do you find time to work?
[chuckle]
I approach my work and play
with the same amount
of seriousness.
Since I am a rational adult...
I am able to balance
everything I do perfectly.
Why at this very moment,
I'm revising
the ninjitsu database
in its entirety.
I believe once every ninjutsu
is analyzed scientifically
then future generations
will be able to use
any jutsu they desire
with ease.
Really? Whoa...
Technology that can help
people lead better lives!
Solutions that work quickly
and cost less!
That's the type of science
I'm interested in!
But of course,
reality never moves forward
quite as fast
as one wants it to.
Are you kidding?
You another one
of these people
who goes on and on
about reality?
Finding a way to make
reality work for you
is the core principal
of being an adult.
Mhm!
‐ (TEMARI) Shikadai?
‐ [gasp]
Huh? Mom?!
What're you doing
all the way out here?
Oh...y'know...
Just waiting to
meet up with a friend.
Is it Boruto?
He has absolutely no interest
in playing this.
I see.
Well, I've actually
got a mission,
so I'm heading out.
I'll probably be late
coming home.
A mission?
Everyone who's ranked chunin
and above is being mobilized.
Thanks to the Byakuya Gang.
Oh... Moegi Sensei said
something about that too.
Yeah... Well, dinner's
all ready for you.
You just gotta heat it up.
Yeah, yeah,
I know the drill.
And don't you worry
about me.
Just focus on your mission.
Don't be such a smart alec!
[chuckle]
So what happened
the other day?
You been busy?
Sort of.
I guess it couldn't be helped.
You are not gonna ask why?
Nah.
Things just happen.
That move...
You used the same tactic
the last time too.
I've been studying
this strategy a lot lately.
Then I'll just make
this move here.
That same play again?!
'Cause my decoy move
always works.
You fall for it every time.
Really?
Well, it's not like
I'm doing it on purpose.
Look at it again.
You think you're protecting
the King over here.
That gives me
a lot of openings.
Huh? Like where?
Like here.
(SHIKADAI) Oh...
Right there, huh?
I didn't even see it.
That's because you never
go on the offensive.
Hmmm...
‐ [grunt]
‐ What?
You ended the game?
You could have still recovered
if you worked at it.
That would be a drag.
Never mind.
(RYOGI)
Your moves surprise me.
I thought you'd stick
to one strategy,
but you're quick to
change you tactics.
(SHIKADAI)
You think so?
(RYOGI)
You're so mature.
You don't ask
personal questions.
(SHIKADAI) I think prying
is just a drag, that's all.
Hey...
Can I ask you a question?
(SHIKADAI) What's with
all the seriousness?
What do you think
about this village?
Do you like it?
I think it's a comfortable
enough place.
Is that all?
The village has been
modernizing at a fast rate.
That must put a strain on
the people here.
Do you ever feel it?
I guess so.
But stuff like that is really
such a drag. Ya know?
I see...
Besides, there's nothing
I can really do about it.
[gasp]
I couldn't do anything
even if the strain
on the village
caused huge problems.
The only ones
with that kinda power
are the adults.
They could change things.
[exhale]
Hey... It's your move.
So the adults
have the power...
[chuckle] We're still
only kids at this point.
Why try to do
what's impossible?
It'll be a drag.
What we should do
is just take care of
our own business
as best we can.
I guess you've
given these things
a lot more thought
than I have.
But you're right.
I can see your point of view.
I'm curious.
What do you think
about recent events?
You mean those robbers?
They're noble thieves.
I can't sit here and pretend
I condone anybody stealing.
But I can't totally
condemn them either.
You could say
they're a product
of the times we live in.
Exactly. I knew you'd say
something like that.
Most of the guys
I hang around with
don't really see it that way,
though.
I can understand.
I know how you feel.
[chuckle]
There you are, Shikadai!
[gasp]
Check this out!
Wow!
Is this the limited edition?
Uh, and who's this?
Uh, we're friends.
We only met recently.
I didn't even catch
your name, did I...?
Dude, what's up with that?
Formal introductions
are always such a drag.
Well, I'm Ryogi.
And I'm Shikadai.
And that's Boruto.
Nice to meet you!
Why do I get the feeling
we've met before?
You must have me confused
with someone else.
I only arrived in this village
a little while ago.
Oh, that's cool.
Oh man...
How'd you get this one?
Oh yeah...
I went and borrowed
all of them from Mr. Katasuke.
Are you serious?!
This Katasuke's amazing!
I told ya!
Oh...
I'm sorry.
It's a rare limited edition,
so I got a little
carried away.
It's hard to believe
you can get carried away!
Anyway, so are the things
this Mr. Katasuke
keeps in his lab
always this interesting?
Well I'd call the majority
of it junk.
[chuckles]
Well, I'm off.
I should probably
get going now.
‐ Huh?
‐ What? Don't go!
Stay and play
the game with us.
Can't, sorry.
You should both
make your way home
before it gets dark too.
There's been a lot of
trouble lately.
Wait, hold on!
[flinching grunts]
It's freezing!
Huh?!
[struggling]
You're late!
I'm sorry.
Did something happen?
There were Leaf genin
at the park.
Did you engage?
No.
I didn't want to attract
any attention.
We should avoid the park area
during our escape.
Okay, understood.
Good job.
(RYOGI)
Sir!
(GEKKO)
Okay, it's time to move out!
[sigh] What a time
for Namida to be late.
Aren't there any jonin nearby?
[gasp] Oh no,
they're coming out!
What do we do, Sumire?
[gasp]
They're gonna get away!
[gasps]
Wind Style...
Gale Raging Wall!
[grunts]
I'm sorry we got here late!
The three of you
stay back there.
‐ Yes, Ma'am!
Gale Raging Wall!
You're not getting away!
Ice Style: Mangehyo!
Tsk!
Hold it!
[gasp]
Huh?
It's you guys again!
Come back!
We can't!
We don't have authorization
to engage!
[grunt]
(TEMARI)
You guys!
Lend me a hand!
[grunt]
Huh? But we‐‐!
Create a diversion!
On it!
Hey, shouldn't we just keep
an eye on the situation?
Boruto!
Shadow Clone Jutsu!
Ice Style...Mangehyo!
Oomph!
Shikadai! Shadow Paralysis!
Huh?! From this distance?
Tsk!
Wind Scythe Jutsu!
Woah!
Let's grab him!
‐ [gasp]
‐ Ah!
[worried groan]
Huh?
Did a man wearing a mask
just come through here?
Uh, yeah.
He went that way.
Thank you very much.
Let's go!
Damn it!
Where did he go?
(TEMARI)
Does this mean he uses
jutsu we don't
even know about?
So Shikadai...
Why did you hesitate
to act back there?
Well, no...
I wasn't hesitating...
I get it.
You're very cautious
and it's your strong suit...
as long as you use it
at the right time and place.
I was going to be
right there with you.
You need to learn that
sometimes it's okay
to take a risk.
I know that already.
Good grief...
At this rate,
you're going to end up
letting the important things
pass you by.
[sigh]
(TEMARI) I'll go submit
the report now.
Good work.
You all did a great job.
We're so grateful
you came to our rescue.
Thank you so much.
[sigh] Guess we should
go home now, Shikadai.
Shikadai?
[sigh] I'm fine.
It's nothing.
That certainly took you
long enough.
I'm sorry.
It's all right.
Because you were the decoy,
the rest of us were able
to make a clean getaway.
You always do well by me, son.
[satisfied sigh]
Boss... It seems
we had some help
from a few special villagers.
I see.
Our philosophy has been
understood and accepted here.
We'll now move forward
and implement
the next part of our strategy.
(SHIKADAI)
Checkmate.
(RYOGI) You really got me
this time.
Damn...
I don't suppose
there are any take backs?
(SHIKADAI)
Well, those are the rules.
But I guess
I could consider it...
If you answer one question for
me completely and honestly.
(RYOGI) What?
You'd be fine with just that?
(SHIKADAI)
Yeah... You're...
(BORUTO) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"Memories from
the Day of Snow"
(RYOGI) That's the place
where I belong.
That's how I decided
to live my life,
ever since that day.